**"In the Eyes of the Animal"**

This installation piece by Marshmallow Laser Feast employs the powers of binaural audio and extensive lidar scanning to take in the local environment of Grizedale Forest in the UK through a custom designed "helmet". Lidar (a clever combination of "light" and "radar") scanning measures distance and depth by targeting a laser at a given point, and analyzing the reflected light. As such, the trees, flora, and fauna (recorded ahead of time) are captured in high-resolution map form. The recorded data is then re-formed and rendered in real time to allow each wearer a unique experience that users can witness within their helmet and by moving their head and looking around their virtual environment. The piece is meant to convey to each user the distinct experience of being a different animal in the forest.

What I found particularly fascinating about this piece was that it was intended to create as real a "natural" experience of being another animal as possible, a task that the artists managed to accomplish through advanced technology. Each helmet is an artificial piece, conveying re-generated and pre-recorded information to its user. There is nothing natural or real about the projected images, sounds, or even vibrations used by the M1 that convey the sense of movement by forest animals, yet the end result is as close to their optical perception as possible. What is most interesting to me is that technology bridges the gap between our natural perception, and those of the animals whose experience we try to mimic.

(http://www.creativeapplications.net/maxmsp/in-the-eyes-of-the-animal-mlf-virtualise-a-forest-through-the-eyes-of-its-creatures/)