### [The Multiperiodic Pulsating Star Y Cam A as a Musical Instrument](http://arxiv.org/abs/1507.07307)

In *The Multiperiodic Pulsating Star Y Cam A as a Musical Instrument*, Burak Ulas discusses methods of converting oscillation frequencies of Y Cam A into generated musical chords. This process of instrument-building utilizes the primary component (or larger) of the the binary star pair Y Cam in the Algol System to produce chord structures. This instrument may not be played, but is instead played *with*; Ulas' audio composition pairs the star's pulsations with a single piano. If Y Cam A is an instrument, it is also automata. 

Ulas chose the star after analyzing 28 separate stellar bodies and finding that Y Cam A closely matched an unusual musical scale already used in some human musical composition. The study also mentions a future possibility of generating additional compositions with several stars at once, utilizing the same procedure; a symphony, if you will.

The idea that the heavens produce music is not a new one, and iterations on the philosophical concept of the Harmony of the Spheres (where celestial bodies resonate in accordance to, well, their orbital resonance) were common from Pythagoras' time until the late Renaissance. Kepler in particular takes up the metaphor in his 1619 book, *Harmonices Mundi*. He determines that (if the planets were indeed singing their orbits), Mars would be a tenor, Saturn and Jupiter brass, Mercury a soprano, and Venus and Earth altos. Each planet has a variation of possible notes enabled by the variation of their orbits- the Earth, which is in a ratio of (16:15), sings from mi to fa. 

My own excitement in this type of work rests in the methodology of translation. Attempting to read the stars as human music (or other such attempts to capture a process beyond our scale of time or physical size) will likely always tell us more about what it is to be human in what it is to be an other. The process of rendering starquakes that are massively more powerful than any earth-bound seismic activity to a synth chord probably illustrates this gap; it is not about the star. Still, this process lends a closeness to things truly distant. It allows a sheet-music sized entry to something vast.
