Network Effect - Jonathan Harris & Greg Hochmuth
=======

In the Network Effect 100 common bodily behaviors are presented through data. 10,000 video clips, 10,000 audio clips, 10,000 tweets, graphs, list, and various other data points are provided to the viewer for a total of 7 minutes. Harris and his collaborator Hochmuth used Turkers, YouTube, Twitter, various news sites, and the Google Books corpus to build a massive visualization of which only a tiny portion is truly acessible. He writes of the project:

> ...the data promises a kind of omniscience, but all of it is a mirage — there is no one here to watch, there is no secret to find, and the data, which seems to be so important, is actually absurd.  In this sense, the project imitates the experience of browsing the web — full of tantalizing potential, but ultimately empty of life. 

## Background

Artist and creative developer Jonathan Harris became known for his data visualization work in the late 2000s, alongside artists like Aaron Koblin. He has worked on projcts like [We Feel Fine](http://therethere.is/wefeelfine), an exploration of human feeling based on weblogs, and [I Want You to Want Me](http://therethere.is/iwytwm), an interactive installation about love in the realm of online dating. 

Since those early works that kickstarted his career, Harris has distanced himself from purely data-heavy interactive work, often choosing to use a film camera and still photography as his medium. He writes of having a love-hate relationship to code and constantly moving between the "imperfect reality" of the physical world and the "perfect abstraction" of a programming environment. Nevertheless, for Harris computer science has become a way study and reflect on the world:

> I’ve started to see our species in those terms as one organism in which we’re each like little cells. We’re all living our own lives and caught up in our own dramas—all of which are totally valid—but there is also another scale of life that’s happening, which is the scale of our planet and all of our consciousnesses together. That idea is particularly interesting to me now, and that perspective really came to me through my work in computer science. (Interview with Great Discontent)

For this project, he recounts having been struck by Marie Howe's poem, [What the Living Do](http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/unbound/poetry/atlpoets/howe9404.htm). It's a poem about everyday moments - waiting for the plumber, receiving a call, dropping grocery bags - and inspired Harris to visualize simultaneity across a single mundane moment. 

He employed Turkers to identify examples of 100 differnet bodily behavior on YouTube. And then he hit a rut. He couldn't find the material compelling or beautiful, and that's when the project became something entirely different:

> We had set out to make a project about our common humanity, but we felt less human than ever. And then we realized: maybe our project is not a celebration of human beauty, but a portrait of human delusion — an exploration of the Internet’s psychological effect on humanity. (Harris's Network Effect release email)

## My Experience

This is a strange piece to watch. It gets boring quickly, features mostly mundane short footage, the graphs are hard to read because the video in the background is distracting. The visual layout is easy to sift through even though the intention is to overload with information. You get a sense that a lot of work was put into something that fails to enchant... In short, I think that's the kind of experience Harris wanted to elicit. I got 7:50 minutes to watch the content and by minute 4:00 I was pretty much done. It's a different kind of online interactive piece altogether and left me feeling oddly dull.  

That said, Network Effect achieves the goal of its creators. I applaud Harris for inviting us to reflect on our Internet<->self relationship by using the very features and characteristics that make the Internet such an addicting, immersive space.   


## References

* Interview with Great Discontent: <https://thegreatdiscontent.com/interview/jonathan-harris>
